So let's talk about packages.
So far we've really only
looked at package main.
We've imported a few.
We've imported fmt, math, and reflect.
We haven't looked at math yet
but it would open up a lot of functions
around mathematical operations.
And then reflect was the one we used for
asking what kind of type
a particular variable was.
We're gonna hop over to PACKAGES.GO.
We talk a little bit
about package visibility.
And then we're gonna create
our own custom package.
So we can watch that interaction between
the main package, which has all of our
code so far and then writing a smaller
package and pulling that code into it.
Cool.
So right now the only thing in this file
simply has a print line for packages.
But let's say we wanted to create
a package that has kind of like
utilitarian functions.
If you wanted to capitalize strings or
do kind of smaller unit testable tasks.
So in our code directory here,
I'm going to create a new folder.
And I'm gonna call this folder utils.
And I know that all go files that live in
this folder are now gonna be in package
utils.
We're getting out of package main,
we're gonna do a subset of code
that lives in package utils.
So in utils,
I'm gonna create a new file called mah.go
And essentially this file will
be where all of our math lives.
So here at the top instead of package
main, we're now gonna say package utils.
[SOUND] I'm still going
to import the package.
And then in this file,
I'm going to create a couple math
functions that just do some basic math for
us.
First I'm going to
create is just func Add.
It's gonna take some amount of numbers.
That must be int, and then at
the end of the day, I wanna int, so.
Theoretically we'll add them all together,
return a final int.
I'll set my initial value to 0.
And then using that underscore since
we're not using the index and v for
every individual value of number.
User range keyword to iterate
over all of our numbers.
And then, for kicks, I'm gonna create
a new function called printNum.
Just so we can kinda visualize like,
what number are we looking at?
What are we doing with this thing?
We'll write that function
in just a second.
Let's add it to our total and
then at the end of this function,
I just wanna return the total of all
the things we've added together.
So you'll notice that right now I'm
getting some errors we need to go write
that printNum function, so I'll put
that right above our add function.
And printNum is going to take a single
number that's also an integer.
And all I really want this guy to do
just we can kinda watch what's happening
behind the scenes is print out.
The current number you're talking about.
Is this thing.
>> You also need on 13 plus or equals.
>> Thank you.
So on line 13 just modifying that typo
where it used to be called an equal sign
and changing that to actually add each
individual number to our total value here.
So one of the areas that we're still
seeing that I'm kind of leaving up here
intentionally, this green squiggly line
here is telling me that something's wrong
with this function and my inter.
If I have override it's telling me that
the add function should have a comment or
be unexported.
And so with packages if you're
talking about JavaScript and
we want to make any variables or
functions accessible to other files.
We have to export them, export const
etcetera to get those values or
functions or
variables to be accessible elsewhere.
In go, anything that has a capital
letter is automatically exported.
So right now because this thing is
actually going to be visible elsewhere
once we import the utils package.
Go has a convention that anything
exploitable needs to be commented so
that users know what's happening and
what it does in other packages.
So here I'm just going to say,
Add adds together two numbers.
Multiple numbers.
And you'll see that error ran away.
So to quick summarize kinda
what's happening here,
we created a different
package called utils.
And nowhere in this package is func main.
And that's because this is not the first
starting point of our program anymore.
We're not trying to dive in here and do
this every single time our program loads.
We just might need this add utility
function elsewhere in our application.
And so we want to define it in a place
where we can reuse it in other places.
Cool, so let's put this package to use.
I'm gonna go back to our packages.go file.
And then underneath import here,
we're still in package main, but
I want access to that utils
file that we just created.
So underneath thumped,
I'm going to import a local package.
And go is going to start from
that top level directory.
So that go workspace.
And so remember that go has like
the folder directory structure where like
after go you see source and source.
You have all of your GitHub files or
local files or the repo or
whatever you're trying to do.
So this import statement here needs to be
the entire file path to
the file we just created.
So starting from the go
workspace in source, you have,
let's see intro-to-go as
the name of the repository and
then within that we have the 05 toolkit.
And then within that we
need to go into code.
need to go to utils.
On save it is deleting it
since I'm not using it.
So let me just run that one more time.
And so on line four we've been using
the font package just by writing fnt.
When you have a long nested list of
packages here the name you're gonna use is
either the last on the right hand side,
so we'll use utils here.
If we wanted to, we could add kind
of an alias on the left hand side.
So maybe this is like math.
And now we can use math instead of
this package name here that can be
helpful if like that last package
name is particularly long or
has a lot of difficult to spell words.
You can kind of choose either
abbreviation or a single letter or
a shorter word to use here to
make your life a little easier.
For now, I'm going to stick with
the basic utils on the end.
So underneath our print line
packages let's add a function here.
So I'm gonna say okay, I know at some
point I need a total variable in my main
function and
then I'm not quite sure what's happening.
But I'm going to create a file a function.
Calculate.
Calculate important data.
So my main function all it knows is that
this calculate important data is going to
go handle all of the calculations.
Do some other stuff,
make some magic happen.
But that's what my entry point of my
application is going to kick off by doing.
And then underneath that, let's go and
print out what we get from that function.
And so to make that function above main,
I'm gonna create a func
calculateImportantData
Let me just reimport this one last time.
[SOUND]
So
now I can use my
utils package.
So, let's say maybe there's some crazy
stuff happening in this folder or
this file, excuse me.
And at the end of the day,
we want the total value to go grab that
add function from our utils package.
So, because we have access to it,
online file,
I can now call utils dot add of
the capital A, because it's exported.
And then pass it a series of numbers.
I do want this function to return the
total value, which means that to the right
of the parentheses here in our function
signature, we also need to say that hey,
you do need to return an integer
Cool, so you'll see when I run the code,
we get that current number that's all
happening in the utils directory.
And then we're also getting 15 which
is what we're printing from line 15 of
our main function.
>> So,
I'm just curious about the utils that add.
Is that utils coming from the file name,
or
that you imported utils or is it
because it's the package name is utils?
>> It is the package utils.
So behind the scenes, if we had multiple
files in our utils directory, if we had
strings.go and do some other stuff
that go all within the package utils.
All of the exploitable capitalized
functions within that package would be
visible by calling any of
those methods on utils.
On the other hand, though,
you'll notice that in our math.go,
we do have two different functions.
We have the capital A add and
we have this printNum.
And just to demonstrate a little bit
about that export madness, I can't.
Let's see.
So printNum.
What do we need here?
It takes a single integer and
print some stuff.
So if I were to change this a little
bit to say I just wanna print line and
say utils dot lowercase, printNum 4,
let's actually do a bigger number,
10, run this file.
We're gonna say,
undefined: utils.printNum,
cannot refer to an unexported name.
So the only functions that are gonna
be visible, even if we can see all of
the utils package,
are anything that has a capital letter.